All right.
I want to do now is just compare two different cases.
So the case here on the left hand side is I have a 10 kilogram box and what I want to do is pretty straightforward
I just want to lifted a certain height and I want to place it on the table.
So at the end we're going to have a 10 kilogram box up here.
Let's look at the work being done when I raise this box over here.
So first thing you can do is let's think about what the free body diagram looks like for this problem.
So here's my box I just represented by a single point there is a force of gravity or a weight acting
down.
This here has a value M.G..
All right M is 10 and Little G is nine point eight.
But for this case let's just use little g for this problem.
The acceleration due to gravity just to make the math simpler.
Just set it equal to 10.
All right.
Now if there is a force lifting it this guy has to apply a force right.
He has to apply a force acting up.
And this is my applied force like this.
All right.
And if he lifts this at constant velocity.
That means these forces are going to balance and they're going to be equal to each other.
So we can calculate what the weight is.
That's pretty easy it's 10 is the mass and cagey multiplied by 10 the acceleration due to gravity.
This gives me a force of 100 Newtons.
That means if my applied force is one hundred Newtons I'll be able to raise this box at constant velocity.
All right.
Now how much energy does it take for me to lift this box.
So for that case what I'm really asking for is how much work did I have to do in order to lift the box.
That's how much energy it takes.
So let's have a look.
These forces are constant.
Right.
The weight is constant down here it's 100.
So I can calculate how much work is done by gravity.
So let's kind of look at that one first.
So work done by the by the weight or by the force of gravity work done by gravity.
Let's apply our equation since it's a constant force I'll call it the work done by a little g force
the work done by gravity it's equal to the force the force is one hundred.
All right we call that M.G. what is the displacement in this case the displacement is this is the displacement
right in this case it's going to be the height one point five meters again the displacement is really
a vector quantity but the magnitude is one point five.
So I'm going to colleges here Delta why and what else.
There is another term right.
There's Kosta angle.
What is the angle now between the displacement and the force.
Think about it for a minute.
What do we have here.
We're going to have a displacement delta y which is acting up and we have our force acting down.
So that means we actually have 180 degrees between the displacement and the force coast of 180 degrees.
Now when if you don't know is the negative one.
So at the end look what we get for an answer for the work done by gravity the work done by gravity again.
This is the force that's 100 delta y is one point five.
That's the magnitude and multiplied by negative 1.
So we're gonna get minus one hundred and fifty joules so the reason that it's negative why is this work
negative.
Does that bother you at all.
It's negative because the force and the displacement are in opposite directions are gonna make a little
space you're going to get rid of this guy for a second.
What about the work done by the supplied force.
That's the other force.
So in this case the work done
by FAA my applied force I can calculate that one as well.
So it's the work done by.
Call it FAA.
Down here it's the magnitude of the force which is also one hundred Newtons.
It's the magnitude of the displacement which is one point five man multiplied by coast of the angle
between the displacement and the applied force.
In this case it's zero degrees.
So I don't even have to worry about that term.
So the work done by my applied force is one hundred fifty joules notice here that it is a positive number.
It's positive because what we have up here in the figure where we have a force and a displacement that
are along in the same direction.
All right.
So this here is going to be positive work being done by this force
positive work.
All right.
So that's kind of an important example.
So for me to lift this box it takes me 150 jewels of energy.
That's how much work I did.
All right let's take the analogous situation now for a charge.
So what I have here is a plus to cool on charge just resting on a negatively charged plate.
The plate is separated from another positively charged plate by five centimeters.
All right.
And what I want to do now is I want to move this I want to bring this charge and I want to move it up
here notice it doesn't want to do that you have to apply a force on this charge in order to move it.
So let's imagine we have a free body diagram lets you draw when it's halfway here.
So what are we gonna have.
It's placed inside an electric field so there will be an electric force acting on this charge well if
it's moving to the top guess what.
There better be another force acting on it in this case.
This is going to be some applied for somebody has to move it all right.
So we can calculate the work done by the electric force and we can also calculate the work done by the
applied force.
Again the difference between the two are one of them is going to be positive.
The other one's going to be negative so what is the direction of the displacement for this problem.
Again I start from here and I finish over here.
So the displacement is delta y.
That is the vector the magnitude is five centimeters.
All right.
So let me look at the work done by the electric field.
We would say so it's gonna be the magnitude of the force.
That's the charge multiplied by the field multiplied by the magnitude of the displacement which in this
case is simply going to be d right the distance between the plates and multiplied by coasts of 180 degrees.
So at the end we end up getting that the work done by this electric field is going to be there's gonna
be a negative sign from this the charges to cool homes the electric field we said was two hundred and
the distance now is five centimeters zero point zero five.
All right let me put that in the calculator.
So I get two times two hundred times zero point zero five at the end I get negative 20 joules that's
how much work was done by the electric field the negative sign here is because the force and the displacement
are in opposite directions.
Force opposite of displacement.
All right let's look at the work now done by my applied force the work done by the applied force in
this case it's the magnitude of my applied force it's the magnitude of the displacement multiplied by
cost of zero degrees so this is what we get we get our applied force again if I'm moving this at constant
velocity my applied force is equal to the electric force just in a different direction so we still get
QE we still get D and codes of 0 is 1 So you see at the end the work done is simply going to be plus
twenty joules again negative the positive sign here is because the force and the displacement are all
along the same direction very very important.